
Every network record has a risk and threat assigned to it:

- **Risk Rating** is based on impact: if information is leaked from a compromised Host or Network, what is the likelihood that this information would cause problems?
- **Threat Level** is based on the origin of the compromise: if a device on this Network is compromised, what permissions and access could an attacker gain access to?

Risk & Threat ratings help determine which logs will be classified as _Events_. This affects what is displayed in the Web Console dashboards, and how much log data is written to the Events database within SQL.


## More Details about Risk & Threat


**Risk is based on impact.** 

- Risk is the value of information or value of the assets contained on a host or network. So if information is leaked from a compromised Host or Network, what is the likelihood that this information would cause problems?
- Risk ratings are assigned when the target, or Impacted Host, is identified in a log message.
- A value of 0 means no Risk is involved for this Network. A value of 9 means the most Risk (or importance) is assigned to Network Hosts, Known or Unknown, that are impacted by the activity described in the log.


**Threat is based on the origin of the compromise.**

- Threat is the potential damage that can come from this host if it were used in an attack. E.g. If hackers were able to compromise a system or device on this Network, how many valuable assets could the hacker gain access to, simply by being on this system? How much damage could be done from this system? 
- Threat ratings are assigned when the Host (Origin) that initiated the activity is identified in a log. 
- A value of 0 means that actions originating from this Network's hosts are not critical or important. A value of 9 means that this Network's hosts should not be the source of outgoing actions, or that the Network's hosts represent the highest priority when they contain outgoing activity. In other words, setting a Threat of 9 will increase RBP to the highest level when activity is originated from this Network, thus increasing the likelihood of being noticed by analysts.



**Direction (Zone)**

Direction simply means the "flow of traffic."
It answers the questions: was information headed _into_ the company, headed _out_ of the company, or did it _stay within_ the company's network perimeter?  


Direction is defined by the **Zone** configured in the Network Record:
- Internal
- External
- DMZ  
 
All undefined or unknown network ranges and IP addresses not explicitly defined within the Entity structure are assigned an External Direction.


**Internal** - means the network exists entirely within the bounds of your organization. No threat or risk is automatically assigned.


**External** - means the network is outside the company's perimeter. They are assigned 
- **Higher in Threat:**  
    because they exist outside the company (where threats live),
- **Lower in Risk:**  
    because they are not a company asset (they exist outside the company).


**DMZ** - means an internal network that exists outside the network's protected network permitted. A high risk and high threat are assigned automatically.


>[!bug] **Note: Consider** **creating Network Records for _Known_ External IP ranges.**   

For example, if you have a partner (like a credit card processing company), you could add a network record for them. Then you could lower their network's risk rating, since you trust them more than _unknown_ external networks.


>[!bug] **Note: Network records do not need to correspond to physical networks.**

Their function is to identify a contiguous range of IP addresses that share a common risk threshold.


>[!bug] Note: It is important to ensure your company's IP ranges are defined.**** 

You will likely want to list your company's public IP addresses as external, but don't forget to define the rest of your company's IP addresses. Otherwise they'll appear external when you actually know they're within your company! (Remember, all `unidentified networks` are considered external !).



