
"Webshell" is a colloquial term for a script that runs inside a webserver (usually in a language such as PHP or ASP) which executes code on the server. Essentially, commands are entered into a webpage -- either through a HTML form, or directly as arguments in the URL -- which are then executed by the script, with the results returned and written to the page. This can be extremely useful if there are firewalls in place, or even just as a stepping stone into a fully fledged reverse or bind shell.


Next Steps

On Linux ideally we would be looking for opportunities to gain access to a user account. SSH keys stored at `/home/<user>/.ssh` are often an ideal way to do this.

In particular something like [Dirty C0w](https://dirtycow.ninja/) or a writeable /etc/shadow or /etc/passwd would quickly give you SSH access to the machine, assuming SSH is open.




On Windows the options are often more limited. It's sometimes possible to find passwords for running services in the registry. VNC servers, for example, frequently leave passwords in the registry stored in plaintext. Some versions of the FileZilla FTP server also leave credentials in an XML file at `C:\Program Files\FileZilla Server\FileZilla Server.xml`  
 or `C:\xampp\FileZilla Server\FileZilla Server.xml`  
. These can be MD5 hashes or in plaintext, depending on the version.


Ideally on Windows you would obtain a shell running as the SYSTEM user, or an administrator account running with high privileges. In such a situation it's possible to simply add your own account (in the administrators group) to the machine, then log in over RDP, telnet, winexe, psexec, WinRM or any number of other methods, dependent on the services running on the box.

The syntax for this is as follows:
`net user <username> <password> /add`

`net localgroup administrators <username> /add`


